# 範例

Building mininet VM server farm
 load balancing mechanism using large number of “real” servers (50 servers)

If you try to run a mininet script like this , maybe you will get this problem if you are under Ubuntu.

Exception: Could not find a default OpenFlow controller

This is trigger because your system don't find a default controller .

To enable it just add the first line and add the controller argument to net variable like the second line:

from mininet.node import OVSController
net = Mininet(topo=topo,host=CPULimitedHost, link=TCLink,controller = OVSController)

Now, you will get the following error:

c0 Cannot find required executable ovs-controller.
Please make sure that it is installed and available in your $PATH:
(/usr/local/sbin:/usr/local/bin:/usr/sbin:/usr/bin:/sbin:/bin:/snap/bin)

ovs-controller is a legacy name. You need to be sure that you has it.

sudo apt-get install openvswitch-testcontroller
sudo cp /usr/bin/ovs-testcontroller /usr/bin/ovs-controller

If you run it again, you should kill ovs-testcontroller first to avoid this:

Exception: Please shut down the controller which is running on port 6653:
Active Internet connections (servers and established)
tcp        0      0 0.0.0.0:6653            0.0.0.0:*               LISTEN      30215/ovs-testcontr


Mininet Python API

The network you'll use in this exercise includes hosts and switches connected in a linear topology, as shown in the figure below.

Topo: the base class for Mininet topologies

build(): The method to override in your topology class. Constructor parameters (n) will be passed through to it automatically by Topo.__init__().

addSwitch(): adds a switch to a topology and returns the switch name

addHost(): adds a host to a topology and returns the host name

addLink(): adds a bidirectional link to a topology (and returns a link key, but this is not important). Links in Mininet are bidirectional unless noted otherwise.

Mininet: main class to create and manage a network

start(): starts your network

pingAll(): tests connectivity by trying to have all nodes ping each other

stop(): stops your network

net.hosts: all the hosts in a network

dumpNodeConnections(): dumps connections to/from a set of nodes.

setLogLevel( 'info' | 'debug' | 'output' ): set Mininet's default output level; 'info' is recommended as it provides useful information.

``` Python
#!/usr/bin/python

import re
from mininet.net import Mininet
from mininet.node import Controller
from mininet.cli import CLI
from mininet.link import Intf
from mininet.log import setLogLevel, info, error
from mininet.util import quietRun
from mininet.node import OVSController

def checkIntf( intf ):
    "Make sure intf exists and is not configured."
    if ( ' %s:' % intf ) not in quietRun( 'ip link show' ):
        error( 'Error:', intf, 'does not exist!\n' )
        exit( 1 )
    ips = re.findall( r'\d+\.\d+\.\d+\.\d+', quietRun( 'ifconfig ' + intf ) )
    if ips:
        error( 'Error:', intf, 'has an IP address and is probably in use!\n' )
        exit( 1 )


def myNetwork():

    net = Mininet( topo=None, build=False)

    info( '*** Adding controller\n' )
    net.addController(name='c0',controller = OVSController)

    info( '*** Add switches\n')
    s1 = net.addSwitch('s1')

    max_hosts = 50
    newIntf = 'enp3s0'

    host_list = {}

    info( '*** Add hosts\n')
    for i in xrange(1,max_hosts+1):
        host_list[i] = net.addHost('h'+str(i))
        info( '*** Add links between ',host_list[i],' and s1 \r')
        net.addLink(host_list[i], s1)

    info( '*** Checking the interface ', newIntf, '\n' )
    checkIntf( newIntf )

    switch = net.switches[ 0 ]
    info( '*** Adding', newIntf, 'to switch', switch.name, '\n' )
    brintf = Intf( newIntf, node=switch )

    info( '*** Starting network\n')
    net.start()

    CLI(net)
    net.stop()

if __name__ == '__main__':
    setLogLevel( 'info' )
    myNetwork()
```
